Cloud - AWS - Its like city

Virtual Private Cloud -

	In a cloud you are creating your own private space where you can put computers(servers),databases and apps.	
        Its like your Home in the city	

Internet Gateway -

	IG is used to connect from Internet to the Public Subnet inside a VPC

Subnet -
	
	People also refer it as isolated
	Subnet splits the VPC network into smaller networks
	Its like Rooms in your Home
	which helps to organize,reduce traffic,increase security and reduce latency

	 Public Subnet -

	   Public subnet is part of network and can be accessible from the Internet

	 Private Subnet -

	   Private Subnet is part of network and cannot be accessible from the Internet

Route Table -

	Route table is like a map which tells the network where to go it associated with the subnets
	Its like maps 

NACL [Network Access Contol List] - 

	NACL is rules attached to the subnet(Public or Private) to allow and deny into subnet based on the Ip addresses, port and protocol
        It work at the subnet level

Security Group -

	SG are rules attached to particular instance or resource it controls who can access that insatance based on the Ip addresses, port and protocol

NAT Gateway [Network Address Tranfer] - 

	NAT Gateway is used to connect your instances from Private Subnet to Internet (for updates,downloads and api calls)
	NAT Gateway helps you convert your private Ip to Public Ip to connect to internet
	It does not expose your Ip to internet in that way

Route 53 -

When we want to access any of the website we cannot access it through the ip address and we cannot remember the ipaddress 
so we create the DNS and map that with the Ip address, So AWS provide that service of creation DNS and we can buy that from AWS

Network Interface -

	A Network Interface is the virtual network card that lets your AWS resource (like EC2) connect to your VPC network using its IP address and security rules.

I designed and implemented virtual private cloud in aws to securely host my applications. 
created seperate VPC and divided them with public and private subnets.

In the Public Subnets I hosted Load balancers to allow incoming traffic and in private subnet 
i placed application instance so that they are not exposed to internet.

To Contol traffic, I configured Network access control list [NACL] at subnet level and 
Security Groups at instance level which controlled inbound and outbound traffic. 

This layered security approach help to protect the application and controlled accessibility.

What is the CIDR block? How did you choose it?
“The number of subnets in a VPC depends on how the CIDR block is divided. For example, a /16 VPC can be divided into multiple /24 subnets. In AWS, the default limit is 200 subnets per VPC.”

Difference between public and private subnet?
“A public subnet has a route to an Internet Gateway, allowing direct internet access, while a private subnet does not have this route and typically accesses the internet via a NAT Gateway.”

Difference between Security Groups vs NACLs

SGs are applied at instance level they are stateful here we support only allow rules.
NACLs are applied at subnet level they are stateless here we should explicitly mention both allow and deny rules

Which is more secure and why?
“Both Security Groups and NACLs provide security at different levels. 
Security Groups offer instance-level protection and are stateful, 
while NACLs provide subnet-level control and are stateless. They are used together for layered security.”

“How will you make your architecture highly available?”

“I designed a highly available architecture by deploying resources across multiple Availability Zones, 
placing a Load Balancer in public subnets to distribute traffic, hosting application instances in private subnets, 
and using a NAT Gateway in each AZ to ensure outbound internet access.”

How do you restrict access so only LB can talk to instances?
I restricted that by allowing only LB SG in the Inbound rule of instances.

“Can users directly access your EC2 instance?” 
If Ec2 instance is placed in private subnet then no. 
if its placed in public subnet and allowed in SG then its possible.